In the New York Times’ “Why You Hate Work,” Tony Schwartz and Christine Porath look into what the modern employee needs to be fulfilled while in the workplace.

If you’re wondering how you can make your employees happier at work, this is one of the best business articles to read. Schwartz and Porath dive deep into what motivates people—and what pushes them away.

Or if you’re one of those 9-to-5 employees who hates your job, this might be one of the best business articles to inspire you to take your career into your own hands.

5. “Think You’re Too Old to Be an Entrepreneur? Think Again”
Despite what you might have learned from “Silicon Valley” or “The Social Network,” not every entrepreneur is a 20-something male wearing a hoodie.

If you’re looking for business articles that will reassure you that you’re not too young to start your own business, then you’ve found one in this infographic. Entrepreneurs are of all ages and come from all walks of life, and Anna Vital’s infographic will convince you of that.

“How to Demotivate Your Best Employees”
Another one of the best business articles from Harvard Business Review? “How to Demotivate Your Best Employees.”

This article highlights the things that you think are motivating your best employees to be even better, but are actually discouraging them. The article looks at a study done on employee incentives at five commercial businesses—and you might be surprised by the results.

An “Employee of the Month” award program? Don’t do one. Read the article to learn why.

16. “Why Google Doesn’t Care About College Degrees”
This VentureBeat article gives you an inside look into how one of the most successful businesses in the world goes about hiring their employees. (Hint: It’s not about expertise—it’s about skill, talent, and grit.)

“It stresses that when every applicant is the best and brightest from a great school with a great GPA, does any of that really mean much anymore”? says Chane Steiner, CEO of Crediful. “People want to hire the best, but determining who that is has to be about more than a piece of paper. What are applicants capable of? The answer to that is likely not found on a college campus anymore. ”

So the next time you’re hiring for your small business, pull this piece up—it’s one of the best business articles to get you thinking about how you can get the best talent for your business.
