You’ve heard it before—or maybe you’ve said it yourself: “The customer is always right.”

In his Huffington Post article, Alexander Kjerulf explains why “the customer is always right” shouldn’t be your motto as a small business owner. If you deal with customers in your day-to-day operations, this business article deserves your attention. You’ll not only realize why you might be treating your customers wrong, but you also might find that you’re making your employees worse-off along the way.

9. “Reclaim Your Creative Confidence”
While most of the Harvard Business Review’s business articles are tailored to the management side of things, “Reclaim Your Creative Confidence” is all about empowering the creative side in everyone.

Creativity is an important trait in a business leader—a recent IBM survey of chief executives around the world shows that it’s the most sought-after trait in a leader. But as a business owner trying to run a successful company, you might put your creative, “big picture” ideas on the back burner while you work through the operations of your business.

But it’s creativity and innovation that drive businesses and industries forward. So if you feel like you need to re-spark your creative spirit as an entrepreneur, “Reclaim your Creative Confidence” is one of the best business articles to read through.

10. “Richard Branson to Young Entrepreneurs: ‘Just Do It’”
In Oscar Raymundo’s Inc. article, famous entrepreneur Richard Branson explains why young wannabe entrepreneurs need to get over the inherent risk factor of starting a business.

You can sit on a great business idea for years, weighing the pros and cons of starting it. But according to Branson, a point in time comes when you have to just do it. If you fail, you fail—and hopefully, you learned something valuable for your next business venture along the way.

“His message was very clear: It takes guts but you have to just do it. Feel the fear, but do it anyway,” says Darko Jacimovic, who says Branson’s article gave him the confidence to start his business.—WhatToBecome.com. “Over the course of the years, I have realized that this advice helped me stop overthinking and pushed me to start working. Now that I reflect on my experience, I realize how such simple advice is incredibly important for young entrepreneurs.”

If you’re an entrepreneur who’s been poised to launch a small business for quite some time now, this is one of the best business articles to help you make the plunge.

11. “Why Should Anyone Be Led by You?”
“Why Should Anyone Be Led by You?” will make you look closely into your skills as a business leader.

This Harvard Business Review article gives four traits of the best kinds of business owners—and they’re qualities that you’ve probably never thought of before. So if you’re looking for business articles that not only help you take a step back and look at how you are as a leader but also give you tangible steps to become a better one, this piece is for you.
